Module 1 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
The main characteristic of Creation or teaching stories (compared to personal stories) is:

Creation stories are everyday lived experiences of people
Creation stories are spiritual in nature
Creation stories are observations and accounts of places
Creation stories evolve over time
Question 2)
Which of the following statements is NOT true:

Storytelling is restricted to elder knowledges
Storytelling conveys worldview and belief systems
Storytelling transmits knowledge about land and culture
Storytelling helps as a moral guide
Question 3)
Kanien:keha’ka worldview concepts began with:

Stories of Wisacejack
The three clans of Bear, Wolf and Turtle
Story of Sky Woman
A matrilineal clan system
Question 4)
A fundamental difference between Indigenous and Western worldviews is the assumption of:

hierarchy versus interdependence in the natural world.
whether or not there is an afterlife.
humans’ natural intelligence.
proper gender roles in the community.
Question 5)
Which Indigenous worldview is embodied by the phrase, “all my relations”?

Nehiyawak
Inuit
Kanien:keha’ka
Tlingit
Module 2 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
Pre-contact populations were:

Disorganized groups of wandering people
Unaffected by contact
Dynamic and complex
Decimated to the point of extinction
Question 2)
Pre-contact trade was largely for:

basic necessities
metal and metal products
luxury items
foreign goods
Question 3)
For a country to succeed economically in a mercantilist system, that country needed colonies to provide easy access to:

land to farm
land to build factories
raw materials
new markets
Question 4)
The correct chronological order of Europeans coming into contact with Indigenous peoples in the land now known as Canada is:

European (French and Basque), Norse, British
British, Norse, European (French and Basque)
Norse, British, European (French and Basque)
Norse, European (French and Basque), British
Question 5)
Which explorer arrived at Taddoussac to formalize alliance with the Innu:

Champlain
Cartier
Caboto
Frobisher
Question 6)
Indigenous peoples would primarily trade furs for:

agriculture supplies (e.g., seeds, machinery)
textiles (e.g., coats, blankets, socks)
wood products (e.g., furniture, carts)
metal goods (e.g., needles, cookware, knives)
Question 7)
Which Indigenous nation acted as the most prominent middleman during the early fur trade?

Inuit
Wyandot (Huron)
Anishinaabe
Nehiyawak
Question 8)
The NWC’s success was not attributed to:

Participation of the Nor’Westers
Merging with smaller rivals
Invention of the York boat
Alliance and friendship with Indigenous nations
Question 9)
The Hudson’s Bay Company (HBC) was given title to Rupert’s Land by:

an act of the senate
a royal charter
a royal decree
an act of parliament
Question 10)
Trading partnerships between Indigenous peoples and the HBC and NWC were frequently facilitated by:

religious conversion
treaty-making
violence
marriage
Question 11)
The export of pemmican was banned by the Selkirk governor in 1814 to help:

establish the NWC as the dominant trading company.
conserve a valuable resource.
exercise his authority over the Métis.
prevent the spread of disease.
Question 12)
Expanding fur trading networks tended to:

Spread European goods across the plains
Allow more access to land for Métis
Deliver goods more quickly due to York boats
Change the recipe for pemmican
Question 13)
The people who broke away from the consigns of HBC and NWC were called:

Rebels
Turncoats
Métis
Freemen or Otipemisiwak
Question 14)
In the last stage of the fur trade the balance of power shifted from:

Europeans to Indigenous peoples
Indigenous peoples to Europeans
Europeans to Americans
Americans to Europeans
Module 3 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
For the Mi’kmaq the word Angugamwe’l indicates how they saw treaties:

Ongoing cooperation
Peaceful relations
Desire for peace but with a respectful distance
Adding to our relations
Question 2)
The Haudenosaunee Two Row wampum belt is called:

Peace and Friendship
Angugamwe’l
Gusweñta
Passamaquoddy
Question 3)
The Gusweñta agreement called for:

mutual respect between the Haudenosaunee and Dutch, as well as non-interference.
the Haudenosaunee to cede a portion of their territory to the Dutch.
an extensive trade network between the Haudenosaunee and French.
the Dutch to leave Haudenosaunee territory.
Question 4)
Which law is often used to describe legally binding agreements of treaties?

The Constitution
International law
The Great Peace of Montreal
Pre-Colonial Indigenous laws
Question 5)
When the Crown was signing treaty with Indigenous Nations, the Crown’s understanding of treaty can best be described as:

An agreement imbued with spiritual association.
A formal agreement used to reinforce and protect relations between the two parties
A legal agreement between two nations.
A way to ensure the ongoing settlement of land for Europeans
Question 6)
One of the best known features of the Great Peace of Montreal is:

Laid the groundwork for peace and cooperation
Allowed Indigenous Nations to hunt and fish freely without harassment from Europeans.
It was signed in 1701
Europeans were now able develop large agricultural areas
Question 7)
A critical part of the Peace and Friendship Treaties from 1725-1779 was the Truck House clause which meant:

Indigenous signatories were not allowed to use modern modes of transportation.
The British Crown needed to provide transportation to the Indigenous signatories.
Required the British Crown to gain consent prior to any settling in East Coast Indigenous territories.
Required the British Crown to establish trading posts for the exclusive use of Indigenous nations
Question 8)
The Robinson Treaties did NOT include:

Most of northwest Ontario for European settlement and resource development
Laying the foundations for the Numbered Treaties
Indigenous nations maintaining hunting and fishing rights
The Truck House clause
Question 9)
Settler officials understood the Douglas Treaties (1850-1854) as:

a basis for economic exchange, while Indigenous leaders understood them as for cultural exchange.
transferring the land, while Indigenous leaders understood them as a basis for cultural exchange.
abolishing Indigenous land title in exchange for protection, while Indigenous leaders understood them as peace treaties
sharing the land permanently, while Indigenous leaders understood this as temporary.
Question 10)
It was this major unscrupulous event that had Indigenous leaders pursuing formal agreements with government representatives:

Riel Resistance
War of 1812
The sale of Rupert’s Land
Robinson Treaties
Question 11)
The Nunavut Land Claims agreement stands out as the ________ land claims settlement to date:

peaceful
largest
comprehensive
traditional
Question 12)
The Northwest Resistance of 1885 heralded a new era of relationship for the Indigenous people of the northwest with the Canadian state. This meant:

Canada finally understood the importance of sovereignty to the Métis people.
An end to the possibility of a nation to nation equal partnership with the Canadian state
End of the dream of an independent Métis Nation State
Métis had recognition by the Canadian state to their claim to St. Laurent and Batoche territory
Question 13)
Confederation affected the treaty-making process because:

The Canadian government felt its borders were secure
Indigenous groups felt entitled to more land.
Indigenous groups were insecure about the future of the Fur Trade industry
The Canadian government sought westward expansion
Question 14)
How do many First Nations peoples regard Treaty Days today:

Celebration only for First Nations’ band members
Celebration of Canadian history
With strong disdain
Celebration of Indigenous sovereignty
Question 15)
What was one of the Indigenous interpretations of Treaty 6:

Legal ownership over all territories
Joining Treaty 7
Sharing land alongside Europeans
Claiming lands for the sake of the tribe
Question 16)
What land base did Indian Commissioner Edgar Dewdney exclude from Treaty negotiations:

The Badlands
The Athabasca watershed
The Cypress Hills
Rupertsland
Question 17)
What was Chief Pitikwahanapiwiyin’s (Poundmaker) reaction to treaty 6:

Angry against his people for turning against him
Angry at the government for not giving enough land
Angry at the government for possessing the land
Angry at the government for meager rations
Question 18)
What was the European interpretation of the spirit of Treaty 6:

The Crown allows rights and privileges to Indigenous people for ever in perpetuity
Indigenous people relinquish hunting rights
Indigenous people relinquish titles and privileges to land
Government relinquishes titles and privileges to land
Question 19)
Who negotiated the signing of Treaties 9–11:

Thomas Scott
John A. Macdonald
Louis Riel
Duncan Campbell Scott
Question 20)
What is the name of the Métis village at the heart of the 1885 Resistance:

Batoche
Red River
North Battleford
Duck Lake
Module 4 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
Indigenous laws can be characterized as:

restorative and centralized
coercive and self-imposed
coercive and centralized
restorative and self-imposed
Question 2
Which of the following principles best describe Indigenous legal traditions?

Defense of the rights of the individual
Punishment-based approach to wrongdoers
Competition and responsibility for individual actions
Prioritization of the collective and cooperation
Question 3
Which of the following exemplify the goals and worldviews of Indigenous legal traditions?:

“Just desserts” approach to penalties
Admission of guilt and cooperatively agreeing on reparations
Separation from friends and family
Banishment from the collective
Question 4)
The ultimate penalty for a repeat offender in Nehiyawak, Dene, Kanien’keha’ka, and Inuit legal traditions is:

shaming rituals
physical mutilation
banishment
the death penalty
Question 5)
The phases of Indigenous restorative justice occur in which order?

Evidence is gathered from witnesses; the offender pleads guilty; the elders pronounce the consequences
Evidence is gathered from witnesses; the offender pleads not guilty; those involved or impacted discuss appropriate consequences
The offender pleads not-guilty; the prosecutor presents the case against the offender; the judge dictates the punishment
The offender pleads guilty; those involved or impacted are consulted; and all discuss appropriate consequences
Question 6)
How might the Indigenous legal procedures encourage independent thinking? Choose the best answer.

The use of Indigenous languages encourages a deeper understanding of issues regarding justice.
The engagement with the wisdom of elders passes down traditional teachings.
The greater personal freedom encourages people to take responsibility.
The concept of non-interference encourages personal interpretations of the relevance of stories to situations.
Question 7)
Which of the following accurately describes Aboriginal rights?

These individual, Constitutional rights reflect the Indigenous legal system and include duties that limit government power.
These individual, Charter rights reflect the Indigenous legal system and include duties that limit government power.
These collective, Constitutional rights reflect the Indigenous legal system and include duties that limit government power.
These collective, Charter rights reflect the Indigenous legal system and include duties that limit government power.
Question 8)
Which of the following best describes the relationship fostered by the Royal Proclamation of 1763 between Indigenous peoples and the British Crown?

Military alliance
Gift-giving dependency
External governance
Unrestricted colonial settlement
Question 9)
The European conceptions of civilization…

privileged Indigenous customs.
valued the natural world.
allowed for multiple interpretations of what it means to be civilized
linked colonialism to a civilizing mission.
Question 10)
The Royal Proclamation of 1763 was violated by:

Metis adopting farming lifestyles.
Settlers taking land for homesteading.
Government agencies mapping the interior regions.
Indigenous communities being granted new land.
Question 11)
The Indian Act contributed to assimilation by:

encouraging intermarriage.
including local elders in Indian Act consultations.
standardizing food production.
abolishing traditional forms of governance.
Question 12)
The potlatch was seen as a threat to the Western value of:

private property.
public property.
collectivism.
religion.
Module 5 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
Indigenous peoples often see the learning process following the life stages, which are:

Childhood, adolescence, adulthood, maturity
Birth, child, teen, adult, elder
Baby, adolescence, adulthood
Birth, medial, death
Question 2)
Elders have a key role in the learning cycle because:

People will always listen to those older than them.
As we grow wiser, we are obligated to share and pass on knowledge.
Younger members of the group demand that the elders tell them how to act.
By Indigenous law, elders must write textbooks.
Question 3)
If a child is struggling with a task, and the parent allows the child independence, what type of parenting is this:

Non-interference
Helicopter parent
Interference parenting
Permissive parenting
Question 4)
Indigenous education relies heavily on the nexus between:

the material world and spiritual world.
observational learning and role modeling.
elders teaching and youths rebelling.
thinking about an issue and actively doing something.
Question 5)
Elders are valued in an educational context because they have much:

experience
spirituality
compassion
authority
Question 6)
The desired outcome of a sharing circle is:

majority vote
consensus
the youth decide the future
time for elders to speak
Question 7)
The concept of Seven Generations means that we:

speak with seven different clans before taking action
consider the repercussions of our actions seven generations into the future.
look seven generations in the past and the future when making a decision.
consult elders who can tell us stories about how a similar problem was addressed over the past seven generations.
Question 8)
The fosterage practice of the Navajo means that:

children are sent to live on residential schools to learn the ways of the settlers.
children spend part of the year with each member of their extended family to unite the group and share knowledge.
grandchildren live with grandparents to exchange physical assistance for care and knowledge.
children live with another group in order to foster peaceful relations.
Question 9)
An example of inductive discipline would be:

physical punishment
cautionary tales about bad behaviour.
time spent in isolation.
lectures about how actions affect others
Question 10)
Dr. Peter Bryce made the horrific discovery that an estimated:

75% of children in residential schools would contract tuberculosis.
35% of children in residential schools are sexual assaulted.
42% of children in residential schools died.
57% of children were physically abused in residential schools.
Question 11)
Residential schools incorporated:

reading, writing, and mathematics.
reading, home economics, and mathematics.
home economics, mathematics, and manual labour.
reading, writing, and manual labour.
Question 12
Métis were often sent to residential schools because they:

could teach those with full Indian status to be more European.
could fulfil the pupil quota for a school.
were seen as potential allies to help status Indians become white.
were also under the jurisdiction of Indian Affairs.
Question 13
The Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples (RCAP) lead to the creation of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission largely because:

it outlined each and every infraction of the various treaties that the federal government signed.
it articulated the truth about the injustices, making it possible for survivors to file a civil lawsuit against the federal government.
for the first time people heard the stories of survivors.
for the first time the government admitted its guilt.
Question 14
Which answer best defines intergenerational trauma:

Trauma that comes from discrimination and racism
A traumatic experience that is held in secrecy
Trauma that happens when you are a child
Trauma that influences each generation
Question 15
The Indian Residential School Settlement Agreement was implemented in the:

18th century
19th century
20th century
21st century
Question 16
Former Prime Minister Harper’s Statement of Apology for residential schools has been criticized for neglecting all of the following except:

a lack of sincerity.
neglecting other racist and oppressive government policies.
not acknowledging the ongoing impact.
failing to mention the Métis
Question 17)
Key to reconciliation is:

engaging with the past, present, and future.
seeing the present issues as the most pressing.
moving on from the past.
focusing on the future.
Question 18)
Campaigns like “Be a Witness” and “Project of Heart” address:

Land claims and sovereignty
Nutrition and health
Improving the lives of Indigenous children
Human rights
Module 6 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
A major economic shift for traditional communities was:

the loss of resource extraction.
the switch to resource extraction.
the switch to wage-based labour.
the loss of wage-based labour.
Question 2)
Indigenous and Métis women contributed to their family’s finances by altering old practices to fit the new economy, such as:

Hiring wage labourers.
farming their own land.
hunting for pelts themselves.
preparing bison robes for transport and market.
Question 3)
Farming in the west was an assimilation tactic primarily because:

farming allowed for more independent financial gain.
hunting and gathering practices decreased, or had to be abandoned.
growing different crops changed the eating habits of Indigenous peoples.
children could more easily be found for residential schools.
Question 4)
The revival of the fur trade in the twentieth century was different from earlier trade because of:

isolationist economic practices.
the dissolution of the Hudson’s Bay Company.
lack of interest by Indigenous peoples.
new transportation and communication systems.
Question 5)
Indigenous peoples’ involvement in the fishing industry was adversely effected by:

the exclusion of women from secondary industry.
government regulations.
declining fish populations.
corporate monopolies.
Question 6)
The imposition of a hydro-electric dam in the James Bay area initiated the first:

monetary settlement for treaty land lost.
environmental impact assessment.
modern land claims agreement.
Indigenous protests against the federal government.
Question 7)
Residential schools:

created settler-style gender roles by teaching girls to collect food provisions.
created settler-style gender divisions by teaching domestic skills only to girls.
opened up gender roles by teaching about the collective.
opened up gender roles by teaching about individualism.
Question 8)
Indigenous men enlisted in the First World War, in part, to:

challenge the British Crown.
foster a better relationship with the Canadian government.
experience warrior ethics and warfare exploits.
help achieve self-determination.
Question 9)
Indigenous women often left reserves as a result of:

seeking wage labour in factories.
a lack of men due to casualties of the First World War.
dissatisfaction with gender roles.
the Indian Act enfranchisement policies.
Question 10)
Some Indigenous elders have referred to education as “the new buffalo.” Why might that be?

Education provides the key to economic success.
Education is seen as a means to better oneself and one’s community.
Like the buffalo, education can only be undertaken by groups, not individuals.
Like the buffalo, education is ruined by the settler mentality.
Question 11)
Amiskwaciy Academy is different from other urban-based schools in that it:

does not have to follow the provincially-mandated curriculum.
integrates cultural practices and lessons in a manner that supports both the survival and growth of traditional activities
employs Indian Affairs staff.
encourages travel.
Question 12)
Community-based education arose:

as an innovative context for cultural renewal.
as a way to increase Indigenous enrolment in schools.
from Indigenous protests against state-funded education.
from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.
Module 7 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
What Indigenous group developed a modern governing body called Eeyou Istchee to represent their rights to self determination and economic development?

Haida
Kanien:keha’ka (Mohawk)
Nehiyawak (Cree)
Inuit
Question 2)
What specific governmental strategy contributed to the loss of status for First Nation status women who married non-status men?

Residential Schools
The White Paper
The Indian Act
The Red Paper
Question 3)
According to the Indian Act, an “Indian” was:

Anyone living on a reserve or lands held in common.
Anyone belonging to a registered band on or off reserve.
Men (as well as any wives and/or children) belonging to a registered band on or off reserve.
Men (as well as any wives and/or children) belonging to a band that had a reserve.
Question 4)
What was the primary motivation for Harold Cardinal to write the Citizens Plus document?

The Native People’s Caravan
The White Paper
The Civil Rights Movement
Arthur Manuel
Question 5)
What Constitutional amendment acknowledges and secures Indigenous rights?

The White Paper
Section 35
James Bay Agreement
The Red Paper
Question 6)
Describe the resulting actions after Cardinal’s response to the White paper?

Extinguishment of Indian Act
Termination of Federal Responsibility
Galvanization of Indigenous political will and leadership
American Indian Movement
Question 7)
Who was the leader of the Manitoba Indian Brotherhood during the White Paper?

Harold Cardinal
Dennis Banks
Russell Means
Dave Courchene
Question 8)
Governmental policies of assimilation provoked Indigenous activism, what group presented the Red Paper to the federal government.

Federation of Métis Settlements
American Indian Movement
Sucker Creek First Nation
National Indian Brotherhood
Question 9)
Indigenous activism in Canada can be partly attributed to what 1970s US movement?

The Native Caravan
First Wave Feminism
American Indian Movement
The National Indian Brotherhood
Question 10)
Which of the following is NOT an Indigenous activist or scholar?

Howard Adams
Harold Cardinal
Vine Deloria Jr.
Jean Chretien
Question 11)
Native People’s Caravan is a good example of:

A grassroots organization
A police riot
A violent protest
A political entity
Question 12)
Which of these is NOT an organized political Indigenous entity.

Native Council of Canada
Federation of Métis Settlements
Inuit Tapirisat of Canada
Civil Rights Movement
Question 13)
The Red Power movement can be described as:

The mobilization of Indigenous people’s activism
A militant group of Indigenous activists
The activists who wrote the Red Paper.
The creation of the Federation of Métis Settlements.
Question 14)
A specific system of government used by the Teslin Tlingit to validate Aboriginal rights and traditions through the effective control of traditional lands and resources.

Charter of Rights and Freedoms
Aboriginal Nation Model
The Royal Proclamation
The Canadian Constitution
Question 15)
This Indigenous entity uses the Aboriginal Nation Model for its system of government.

The Teslin Tlingit
The Métis National Council
The National Indian Brotherhood
United Nations
Question 16)
The Aboriginal Nation Model does NOT include:

Self-determination
Civil, Democratic and Political Rights
Urban extensions
Entitlements of Citizenship
A free car
Module 8 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
Western conceptions of land do not include:

the physical environment
biological organisms
the atmosphere
the spiritual realm
Question 2)
TEK stands for:

Total Ecological knowhow
Titans Entering the Kingdom
Traditional Ecological Knowledge
Transmitable Elders Knowledge
Question 3)
Traditional Denésƍliné knowledge of caribou movements provides insight into:

relationships between elder hunters and others.
exploitation of caribou herds.
decision making about managing herds.
land claim negotiations.
Question 4)
The Privy Council affirmed that Aboriginal title existed “at the goodwill of the Crown”, this finding was overturned by the Supreme Court of Canada in which case:

Calder
Sparrow
Guerin
Delgamuukw
Question 5)
The responsibility of the government to act in the best interest of Aboriginal peoples is:

A fiduciary duty
Traditional Ecological Knowledge
Aboriginal title
Aboriginal rights
Question 6)
From a colonial perspective, the numbered treaties were used primarily to:

open up lands for European settlement and resource extraction
identify and guarantee Aboriginal rights to First Nations people
Ensure peace and friendship in on the east coast
create a peaceful relationship for future cooperation
Question 7)
The Van der Peet case underlines that protected rights are those:

recognized by the federal government.
agreed upon in the Numbered Treaties.
integral to a distinctive culture.
shared by all Indigenous groups.
Question 8)
The displacement of Aboriginal peoples from their territories exacerbated by increased settlement brought about by:

Canadian Pacific Railway
Aboriginal desires to abandon their territories
Aboriginal desires to assimilate into broader Canadian society
Modern Land Claims negotiations and settlement
Question 9)
The government of Canada forcibly relocated the Inuit in the 1950s in order to:

Just see if they could do it
provide Inuit with more accessible opportunities for trade
move Inuit people to more productive hunting grounds
enforce Canadian claims to sovereignty in the North
Question 10)
Which one of the following impacts of resource development is specifically tied to the loss of Indigenous people’s connection to land?

bioaccumulation
pollution of aquatic wildlife
Climate Change
Mental and spiritual health
Question 11)
Which one of the following is not representative of Indigenous responses to the impacts of resource development?

Conservation
Community-based monitoring
monitoring by the federal environmental agency
Co-management and community-based resource management
Question 12)
Community-based monitoring means that:

Indigenous communities monitor their own lands in their own unique way.
each community hires a monitoring agent who acts as an intermediary between the Indigenous group and the federal government.
Indigenous communities monitor their own lands as mandated by the federal government.
each community choses a representative to monitor their lands and report to the elders.
Question 13)
One of most persuasive arguments for Indigenous language revitalization is that:

there is a loss of meaning when words are translated into English.
the poetry in Indigenous languages is in danger of being lost.
languages can help bridge gaps between people.
language enables communication.
Question 14)
The Gwaii Haanas National Park Reserve was the first:

conservation effort by an Indigenous group.
instance that the federal government gave up its ownership of a national park.
cooperative management agreement between Indigenous peoples and the Canadian government.
Denesoline land was preserved by the federal government.
Question 15)
The main challenge to co-management and community-based management is the:

over-regulation by the federal government.
lack of trust between government and community authorities.
the acceleration of climate change.
lack of recognition of traditional Indigenous knowledge.
Module 9 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
Concepts of Indigenous gender include:

Males have flexible roles and responsibilities
A strict male/female gender binary
Females were sometimes revered.
Gender was seen as being on a spectrum
Question 2)
In Matrilineal societies Indigenous men were:

The ones who chose women leaders.
Leaders – chosen by other men
Leaders – chosen by Clan mothers
Slaves
Question 3)
The Navajo word nádleeh means:

Asexual person
Hermaphrodite
Process of change
Two spiritedness
Question 4)
What characteristic does not describe Haudenosaunee society:

Matrilocal
Matriarchal
Matrilineal
Matrifocal
Question 5)
Within the colonial project, Indigenous women were relegated to what gendered domain?

Domestic
Political
Cultural
Economic
Question 6)
Which of the following government policies did not directly target Indigenous women?

British North America Act
Bill C-31
Bill C-3
Indian Act, 1951 amendment
Question 7)
What does the image of the “Indian Princess” give to Indigenous women?

Narratives of power and agency
Objectifying their socio-economic roles
Gendered moral ambiguity
Examples of feminist icons
Question 8)
The legal cases of Lavell and Lovelace v. Canada addressed:

Gender discrimination against Indigenous women
Land claims issues in BC raised by Indigenous women
Voting rights for Indigenous women
Residential school abuses against Indigenous women
Question 9)
Egalitarianism principles include:

Matrilocal societies
Structured patriarchal views
Interrelatedness and accountability
Gender discrimination
Question 10)
The second wave of feminism can generally be described as:

Dealt with issues of gender, race, economic and social injustices
Dealt with matters of family, sexuality and work
Wealthy white women gaining the vote
The suffragette movement
Question 11)
Which Indigenous women’s group formed in the the early 1970s?

Indian Rights for Indian Women and the Native Women’s Association of Canada
Stolen Sisters and Indian Rights for Indian Women
Stolen Sisters and Native Women’s Association of Canada
Native Women’s Association of Canada and Indigenous Women’s Law Association
Question 12)
How long has colonial patriarchy challenged Indigenous feminism?

Since the Charlottetown Accord of 1982
SInce Canada’s Confederation in 1867
Since the Indian Act of 1876
Since 1492
Module 10 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
Hall argues that identity is often thought to contain an underlying “essence”. Which of the following examples does Hall list as examples of this essence?

Written text
Dreamed histories
Psychic memories
Shared culture
Question 2)
What do many urban Indigenous peoples consider the most important element for creating informal networks in urban centres?

religious orders
extended family
sporting teams
municipal service organizations
Question 3)
How might Indigenous poverty be different from that endured by First Nations residents living on their First Nation?

There are fewer economic opportunities in the city
Fewer people are willing to help in the city
The poverty is worse in cities
There is a higher level of prejudice endured by urban Indigenous residents
Question 4)
What improvement could be made to organizations to better foster urban Indigenous governance?

A focus on local-level governance, like school boards
Add non-Indigenous experts to existing organizations
Create permanent subcommittees “attached” to existing councils
Provide permanent positions on existing municipal governance structures
Question 5)
What is a distinctive element of urban Indigenous protests as compared with other Indigenous protests?

The engagement with a variety of community members
The use of social media to facilitate marches, round dances, etc.
That it is characterized by male leadership
That it has extensive connections with reserve based political protest
Module 11 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
Based on the theory of Indigenous communities explained, which type of community may also be considered an Indigenous nation:

Temporary Invented community
Mythic community
Sited Community
Ongoing Invented Community
Question 2)
Within Indigenous kinship systems, which statement is false:

Includes extended relatives
Allows members to benefit from family community
You have to be related through a blood line
Includes immediate relatives
Question 3)
When creating a social movement, which is NOT a key characteristic?

Individuals share a common goal or purpose
People are brought together for a specific cause
Longstanding collective memories are shared through oral tradition
A diverse group of people come together
Question 4)
The MMIW social movement does NOT include:

A communal memory of the past
Indigenous and non-Indigenous people working together
The creation of a tribal community
Memorials for the missing and murdered
Question 5)
The Idle No More Movement of 2012-2013 formed as a result of:

The need to return to traditional family kinship systems
The need for more traditional activities, like round dances and powwows.
Concern over the environment and Indigenous rights
Call to action for more of a land base for Aboriginal peoples
Question 6)
What type of community was created in the Indigenous climate activism that culminated in the People’s Climate March in 2014?

Indigenous cultural community
Sited community
Ongoing invented community
Figurative social community
Question 7)
The Unist’ot’en Camp arose as a resistance community as a response to:

the Oka Crisis
the Pacific Trails Pipeline
the Keystone Pipeline
climate change
Question 8)
Chief Toghestiy gave an eagle feather to the Apache Corporation as:

an offering of peace.
a warning to trespassers.
a sign from the Creator.
an act of war.
Question 9)
This event triggered and energized Indigenous claims to Kanienkehaka sovereignty.

Oka Crisis
Idle No More
Pacific Trails Pipeline
Unist’ot’en Camp
Question 10)
The most significant advantage of Indigenous activists using social media is the:

international reach.
facilitation of creating groups with email notifications.
dynamic nature of the platforms.
ability to operate anonymously.
Question 11)
The fundamental critique of the engagement with social media is that activism in cyber space might unintentionally discourage activism in the street. Why?

activists might feel a false sense of accomplishment.
not everyone has a computer or smartphone.
activists must choose between Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.
not all social media platforms allow for anonymity.
Module 12 Quiz Answer
Question 1)
What did not influence the Indigenous art?

Geographical location
Distinct worldviews
Material wealth
Networks of trade
Question 2)
What is not a contemporary expression of “traditional” Indigenous art?

Stained glass
Tree box making
Beading
Quill work
Question 3)
What piece of Canadian legislation does Nadia Myre bead to make a political statement?

The Constitution Act
The Indian Act
Environmental Protection Act
Bill C-31
Question 4)
What was the underlying issue behind the “Spirit Sings” exhibit at the Calgary Winter Olympics in 1988?

Event organizers were seen to hold ‘romanticized’ ideals about Indigenous art
Artists were not paid fairly for their work
There was not enough diversity in the exhibit from outside Alberta
Brought attention to the resource extraction at Lubicon Cree Nation
Question 5)
Who was the first Indigenous artist to be included in the National Art Gallery of Canada?

Carl Beam
Jane Ash Poitras
Norval Morrisseau
Jackson Beardy
Question 6)
The concept of ‘place’ is a crucial aspect of Belmore’s piece called “Trace”.This is represented by:

“Trace” representing the buffalo hunt from Pembina to Red River
Where the Red River Valley clay gumbo was excavated
The geographical location of the participating community members
The place where “Trace” is currently installed
